Colombia’s private sector has an important role to play in bringing inclusion and reconciliation to a country afflicted by the consequences of a decades-long armed conflict. That is why our Program of Alliances for Reconciliation, funded by USAID and implemented by ACDI/VOCA, promotes hands-on opportunities for engaging corporations in peacebuilding activities. Since 2017, the Program of Alliances for Reconciliation has teamed up with Fundación ANDI to host corporate volunteering events in regions where people have been marginalized by armed conflict. The volunteer initiative, which is called Vamos Colombia, mobilizes volunteers from companies, often in urban areas, to rural settings with the goal of building trust and creating lasting impact locally and beyond. Fundación ANDI is the charitable arm of the largest business association in Colombia, which means it has a powerful platform for engaging the private sector in the reconciliation process. So far, 3,700 corporate and local community volunteers have worked on more than 96 projects, many of which focus on improving local infrastructure and cleaning up public spaces. Volunteers plant trees, clean up schools and community centers, paint murals, build community gardens, and repair playgrounds and sports fields. Some volunteers have served meals to migrants near the Venezuelan border, provided medical checkups, and offered pro bono legal advice. What all these activities have in common is bringing together people from different spheres of society — from farmers and business executives to ex-combatants, military personnel, and Venezuelan migrants. Working together on community-building projects improves trust, respect, and dialogue among these diverse groups, which is key to ushering in a new era of reconciliation in Colombia. “The experience helped to build trust and showed us that we can achieve integration into society. Being able to interact with so many people and feel accepted really helps us as we go through this process, as we’re sometimes unsure of how people will treat us. We felt a lot of trust here.” – an ex-combatant and Vamos Colombia participant Participants learn valuable lessons in empathy, teamwork, and forgiveness to heal the wounds of the past, as they help restore a community’s sense of pride and identity. Their efforts also help promote new narratives about stigmatized regions by shining a light on their potential. Participating companies, such as Renault, Juan Valdéz, and Telefónica, also benefit from the relationship building within their own organizations and improved retention rates among staff as a result. A survey given to volunteers before and after projects revealed that 74 percent defined reconciliation as putting oneself in the other person’s shoes, while 72 percent said they were using tools they learned to recognize and accept differences among people in their workplaces and at home. Vamos Colombia’s goal of inspiring the private sector to support peacebuilding has resulted in several companies using the Vamos Colombia model to organize their own volunteer events. With over 100,000 volunteer hours and counting, Vamos Colombia is breaking down barriers and promoting social and economic inclusion for vulnerable communities. The interest from participants in creating unity across social and geographic divides points to a growing commitment among Colombians to turn the page on decades of conflict and move toward social transformation.  Learn more about our Program of Alliances for Reconciliation. Learn more about our work in Colombia.